Okay so in this lesson I want to talk about the topic of Tolkien rising Tolkien izing just means splitting
up the words in a sentence into individual words.
The good thing for us is that we don't have to do this manually.
We can get the NLC key module to do this for us.
However the penalty K module needs a certain component to be downloaded onto our local machines and
we can grab this component with penalty K Dot download parentheses single quotes P U and key t plunked
before a hit shift enter on this.
Let me show you where this will go on both Mac NPC will go under your username.
So when I hit shift enter on this cell then I'll be downloading package to users.
Then my username.
And then it creates a folder called an L T.K. data.
This folder will have been created right here and it now includes a sub folder called token risers with
this punk sub folder that will help us token eyes or split up a string into the individual words.
The very first time you run this it will download a zip file and unzip it for you if you rerun the cell.
It will actually not do anything it already knows that you've got the package and it says package is
already up to date with this component downloaded.
All we need to do to split up our example sentence.
All work and no play makes Jack a dull boy is to copy this line of code paste it down here and then
run a method on it called word underscore token nice and all it needs as an input is our message that's
printed that hitting shift into it splits up all the individual words in this string.
Now if you're wondering where a word token ice came from it's from up here.
We've imported this functionality from an al T.K. dot token nice all right.
Now suppose we wanted to two things.
Suppose we want to convert this to lower case as well as token eyes.
The words in that case all we need to do is use our message string.
Call the lower method on it.
And that's this bit of code between the parentheses of word tokens that'll get the job done.
So as you can see tokenization isn't very complicated.
Let's move on to the next pre processing step namely removing stop words.
Now what I mean by stop words stop words is a piece of jargon that refers to the most common words in
a language.
I'm talking about words like the eye of a at which on etc. These words are very very important for grammar
but they don't convey a lot of meaning on their own.
In particular these words aren't gonna be very helpful for differentiating between spam and non spam
messages.
So what we're gonna do is we're going to exclude these stump words from our message text and the reason
is is that we're going to be looking at words in isolation remember this is the naive bayes classifier.
It will not look at a sentence as a whole it won't look at a phrase the eve based model and the bag
of words approach will look at words individually.
So if you have a phrase like flights to London then it will look at the word flights the word 2 and
the word London.
The meaning is actually lost on the algorithm and this is why we filter out the stop words like the
words too.
So we're just piping the word flights and the word London into our algorithm.
Now this is a little bit of a contrast to how modern search engines will work right.
They're not quite as naive as our spam classifier and they don't actually filter out these stop words.
This is why when you're searching for the phrase let it be it will bring up the Beatles song and you'll
actually get meaningful results.
The same is true if you search for take that again more stop words or to be or not to be which is a
sentence comprised entirely of stop words.
So let's insert a cell here where we're downloading our resources and actually download these top words.
As I've been talking a lot about them so and T.K. dot download parentheses single quotes stop words
all lowercase and in one word if I hit shift end here I can see that a new folder has appeared under
an K on a scroll a data the folder is called core poorer and it has a sub folder called Stop Woods.
Now it's actually got the stop Woods for quite a few different languages and I can actually take a look
at which stop Woods are included in the English section.
Here is the list.
You'll notice that they're all lowercase and there's about 179 of them starting with I me my myself.
We are ours and so on.
Okay so we've downloaded the resource and you're probably wondering how do we exclude the stop word
and and a from this string.
You can think of the string as a collection of words and you can think of our list of stop words as
just another collection.
So the question then becomes how do you efficiently check if a particular value is contained in a collection.
This is actually a very generic programming problem that you'll face in many many situations.
Now one way you can do this is to create a list of all the words and then check one by one and look
for a match.
However there is another way to do this and Python has a fantastic data structure that is very very
well suited for this particular type of problem.
And that is the python set a set is an on ordered list so you couldn't say something like give me the
item at position number one or give me the item at position number 3.
This is what you would do with an array or a list with a set.
There is no order to the items.
Also every single item in a set occurs only one time and this makes a set super handy for checking membership
or looking for differences.
And what you'll find is that the larger your set or the more data that you're actually working with
the more you'll notice the advantage of working with this data structure because as soon as you have
to iterate through an enormous array or enormous list and check one by one.
Is there a match.
Is there a match then the computation will start to take quite a long time.
Here's how you can visualize the words in our example sentence as a set.
I'll draw one big circle and in that circle will have the word work play makes Jack and a and some of
the other ones similarly our stop words can comprise another set.
And here we would have words like we I until you while and also the word and an A.
The words and an A are members of both sets.
They're at the intersection of the two circles.
So if you're a visual person like myself then this is how you can kind of think about the set data structure
coming to think of it.
We've actually covered quite a few different types of collections so far right.
We've covered lists we've covered dictionaries we've covered tuples we've covered arrays and now we've
also covered sets.
Now these are probably the most important data structures that you'll find in Python the lists the dictionaries
the tuples and the sets are actually built in data structures in Python the arrays on the other hand
came from num pi just the same way that pandas gave us the data frame.
But I think that's enough theory.
Let's write some code and put our sets into action.
Let's access to stop keywords first so stop words not words parentheses English will give us our stop
thoughts.
Let me hit shift enter and see what we get here.
These are the stamp words in that file at the moment.
If we check what the type is of this particular object we get a list.
So if we use this bit of Python code we will be working with a list.
If we wanted to work with a set instead then then we would use the python keywords set and then between
the parentheses feed in our list of stop words.
Here's what it would look like.
Similar to a dictionary.
The python set has this curly brackets notation but in this case all the values inside are simply separated
by a comma with a dictionary.
You always have the key and value pair with the colon in between but with a set you have the curly brackets
and then the values separated by a comma.
So what I'm going to do now is create a variable called stop on the school words and store our set inside
this variable.
And if you're in doubt that we indeed are working with a set now we can check the type of our stop words
variable.
There you go.
This should be the proof.
Now let's use our set to check for membership.
Here's how you can do it.
If the string this is in stop words then print found it.
Here we're using the python in keyword to check if a particular string is contained inside our set.
See what we get.
Yeah.
So the word this is contained inside our stop woods.
What about the word hello.
A common word right.
Let's see if that's contained nope not among the list.
The print statement does not execute so the word this was found but the word hello was not.
And how as a challenge can you print out.
Nope not in here.
If the word hello is not contained in stop words did you give it a quick go.
The solution is very simple.
So if I just copy paste my previous line of code substitute Hello for the word this and then add the
word knot which is a python keyword to modify our condition in our if statement.
And then lastly just modify the bit in the print statement.
Nope not in here and we can see now that we've got already two patterns one using the in keyword and
a set to check for membership and the other one using the word not in.
If you wanted to check whether something was not contained in the set both these techniques are very
very handy and we're gonna make use of it later on in our code.
But before we tackle all of our five thousand eight hundred email messages let's tackle an example sentence
first.
Let's write some python code that both token ISIS converts to lower case and remove stamp words from
an example sentence I'm quickly going to copy this line of code here.
Pasted in and just add something at the end.
Maybe to be or not to be just a bunch of Stomp words and how we said we'd take a nice lower case and
remove the stop words from this string.
We can lower case with message stopped lower we can token ize with word on the score token I's parentheses
and then provide message dot lower as an argument and we can store this list of words in C a variable
called words OK fine so far so good to filter out all the stop words I'm going to use a loop and I'm
also gonna use an empty list to hold on to the results.
So so I'll say filtered on the school words as equal to an empty half square brackets and then I want
to write my loop but I think given what we've covered so far you can probably write this yourself already.
So as a challenge can you read a loop that appends all the non-stop words to this currently empty list
of filtered underscore words I'll give you a few seconds to pause the video and give this a go.
Did you figure it out.
Here's the solution.
So when is a for loop and a say for word in words.
So going through all the words in this list one by one.
If the word is not in stop words then then take the list of filtered words and append the word.
And just so we can take a look at our work and print out our list of filtered words let's see what we
have.
Okay so this is interesting.
Write the word all disappears.
The word work is included the word and is not the word.
No it's also excluded.
Play remains makes remains Jack remains but is lowercase because we've converted it here to lower case
A is excluded dull.
And boy are included.
And then we have the punctuation we have the full stop here and all of these words to be you're not
to be are excluded because they're all stamped words and then the full stop at the end is included as
well.
So our list of filtered words contains all the non-stop words plus the punctuation.
All right.
So we've covered quite a few of the pre processing steps already we've covered how to convert to lowercase
we've covered token izing and removing stamp words.
We still have to learn how to strip out H.M. tags and do the words Deming and remove the punctuation.
The word stemming and the punctuation removal is what I'm going to cover next.
So I'll see you in the next lesson.